What we want to know is whether or not there is a genotypic
difference at a given locus between two samples.  The traditional
approach of 1) Estimating base composition for each sample
individually and then 2) Calculating the distance between these
two base compositions is not optimal in cases in which there is a
good deal of uncertainty in the two samples' base composition
estimation.

The reason this is not optimal is that there is a reduction of
information in the process of calculating composition.  The
evidence itself merely gives a distribution with a given shape.
Confidence intervals can be calculated from that shape.  The
distribution itself exists in normalized 4D (or a subspace of
constrained 3D where A + C + G <= 1, all positive)

Confidence intervals themselves are hard to express except in 1D,
one pair of confidence intervals per base.

Instead, to get a more realistic measure of uncertainty in
compositional distance between two samples, I propose inverting
this workflow.  First, calculate the distribution of base
composition for each sample.  Then, generate a sufficient number
of random pairings of these sample points from each distribution,
computing mutational distance (euclidean distance) between the
pairs.  Then, calculate confidence intervals (quantiles) on the
resulting 1D euclidean distance distribution.

The question of whether a sample is constrained to have a
diploid, or a diploid/triploid genotype (in the case of samples
that may have gain of zygosity / duplication), one may want to
calculate base composition not by sampling freely from a
posterior over normalized 4D, but over a finite set of discrete
points in that space.  In this case, instead of treating each
sample point equally as a point coming from a smooth density, it
is treated as a weighted point.

Given this type of sampling, the 1D distance distribution would
instead involve pairing these points and calculating weighted
distance.  But, besides this, the approach is the same.


Analyzing the results


The approach described above thus provides a set of quantiles on
euclidean mutational distance, for each single base locus, for the
given pair of samples.  One may ask, how many of the loci have
different genotypes and how many are the same.  Given the quantiles,
this question translates into: "How many loci have a mutational
distance Y or greater, with probability X?" or: "How many loci have a
mutational distance Y or less, with probability X?"

To familiarize, take a few examples:

Example 1: Sample A has 100x coverage, and nearly all high quality A
calls.  Sample B has 100x coverage, and roughly 50%/50% A and C calls,
also high quality.  In this case, both individual posterior
distributions will be "tight" and the 1D distance distribution will be
centered around sqrt(0.5), or 0.71, the distance between points (in
the (A, C, G, T) way of writing it:

Sample A: (1, 0, 0, 0)
Sample B: (0.5, 0.5, 0, 0)

In this hypothetical example, since both individual distributions are
tight, we can say with 99.9% probability that the distance is 0.70 or
greater.  Likewise, we can say with 99.9% probability that the
distance is 0.72 or less.  In other words, we know the mutational
distance very well.


Example 2: Sample A has 100x coverage and nearly all high quality G
calls.  Sample B has zero coverage.  In this case, the posterior for
sample A is tight, and centered around (0, 0, 1, 0), but the posterior
for sample B is uniformly distributed, i.e. equal density everywhere.
Thus, the distance measure distribution will consist of many pairs of
points, with one point very close to (0, 0, 1, 0) and the other
anywhere in the space.  Some points at random will be nearly at (0, 0,
1, 0), while others will be as far away from it as possible.

Thus, the resulting 1D distance distrubtion will be uninformative.  We
can only say that the distance is zero or greater with 99.9%
confidence, and that it is 1.41 or less with 99.9% confidence.  The
median distance will be
